# Big-Data
Our objective in this part of the project was to extract, organize and get basic sense of the fortune 500 companies in US in terms of their patents, revenue, competition, CSR activities and their focus on innovation & analytics. We used techniques such as Hadoop, Perl, Python, R, Mallet, Tableau, SQL and MS Excel to achieve the desired results.
We analyzed the revenue information obtained from the Compustat reports after removing the data for companies which were not present in the F500 list (31 such companies). Based on industry format (INDL Vs FS), for both the formats revenue seem to be proportional to money spent on employees and R&D expense. Also, the revenue of FS firms on an average is higher than firms belonging to INDL. A remarkable dip in revenue in 2008 and consequently in money spent on R&D and employees in the following years was observed. For analysis of CSR data, variables with more than 40% null values were removed and remaining parameters were clubbed into 5 main clusters - Economic, Environmental, Ethical, Legal and Philanthropic to arrive at a unified CSR score for each firm on a scale of 5. Top 3 firms according to this came out to be Baxter International, Agilent Technologies and American Express company.


Revenue data: Compustat revenue related data for F500 companies. 31 companies of 518 companies for which compustat data was uploaded were not in F500 and hence rows pertaining to them were removed
CSR data: This the cleaned data on CSR, obtained after removing 56 variables thaat had more than 40% null values and clubbing the remaining in 5 clusters - Economic, Environmental, Ethical, Legal and Philanthropic    
Patent count: Count of patents for the F500 companies from 2000 to 2015, mapped to their SIC codes
Mallet: inference for innovation	Focus areas of innovation for all the F500 companies for which we could find inventions in the last 3 years. These focus areas were inferred from the ouput of Mallet, run once for each industry (represented by SIC code)
Mallet inference for analytics	Focus areas of innovation for all the F500 companies for which we could find relevant content from Annual reports of last 3 years. These focus areas were inferred from the ouput of Mallet, run once for each parent industry (represented by first 2 digits of SIC code)
US election database: Election outcome data from 1856 till 2012. Data on monetray contribution made by PAC to the parties from 1988 onwards
